Britt Bowman: Hey Marcus, good to finally do this. Thanks for making time — I know you've got a lot going on with the Henderson project wrapping up.
Marcus Webb: Yeah, honestly it's good timing. We just got the final sign-off last week so I'm coming up for air a little bit. I'm excited to dig into this.
Britt Bowman: Perfect. So I want to use this session to get everything I need to set up your Vector practice OS — it's the tool I use to build out your BD system. I'll be asking you a lot of questions but it should feel pretty natural. Just answer like you're talking to a colleague.
Marcus Webb: Works for me. Fire away.
Britt Bowman: Let's start with the basics. What's the official name of your practice — the way you'd want it to appear on a proposal or a client deliverable?
Marcus Webb: Apex Strategy Group. That's the legal name, that's what's on everything. We used to have "LLC" at the end but we dropped it a couple years ago — feels cleaner.
Britt Bowman: Got it. And your name and how you describe your role?
Marcus Webb: Marcus Webb, I'm the founder and Managing Partner. There are two other people who work with me — one is a full-time senior associate, one is a fractional ops specialist I bring in on bigger engagements.
Britt Bowman: Great. Now this next one is important — what email address should we use for your Vector account? This is the email you'll use to log in, so make sure it's one you check regularly.
Marcus Webb: Use britt@brittbowman.ai — that's my main work email, the one that's on my proposals and everything.
Britt Bowman: Perfect. And your website?
Marcus Webb: apexstrategygroup.com — though honestly it needs a refresh, it's pretty outdated. That's probably on the list eventually.
Britt Bowman: We'll note it. Okay, let's get into the practice shape. How many people are actively billing client work right now, including you?
Marcus Webb: Three. Me, Sarah who's full-time, and then Derek — but Derek is more like two to three days a week depending on what we've got going on. So I usually say three but it ebbs and flows.
Britt Bowman: That tracks as small — two to five people. Now, when you picture your ideal client engagement, who is the person you're selling to? What's their title, company size, industry?
Marcus Webb: VP of Operations, sometimes COO, at a mid-market manufacturing company. We're talking like two hundred to eight hundred employees. Usually family-owned or PE-backed, not public. They're growing — either through acquisition or just organic expansion — and they've hit a point where their operations can't keep up with the growth. They need someone to come in and actually build the infrastructure, not just give them a deck.
Britt Bowman: I love that framing — build the infrastructure, not just give them a deck. Is there a specific geography or industry you're focused on?
Marcus Webb: Manufacturing is the industry — that's intentional, that's where our credibility is sharpest. Geography-wise we're mostly Midwest because of relationships, but we've done work in Ohio, Tennessee, a little bit in Texas. I wouldn't say we turn away work based on geography, but our network is strongest in the Midwest.
Britt Bowman: Makes sense. Okay, I want to ask you about how new clients actually find you — and I want the honest answer, not the aspirational one. Where did your last five clients come from?
Marcus Webb: Referrals. Almost all of them. The Henderson project — referral from a private equity partner I'd done work for. The one before that, Lakeside Distribution — that came through Tom Nakashima, who's a fractional CFO I've collaborated with a few times. Before that, Meridian Foods — that was actually a direct referral from Jennifer Kowalski, who was a past client herself. She referred her colleague at a sister company. I've tried some cold outreach, I've been on a couple panels, but honestly the pipeline that converts is all warm. It's all people who know someone who knows me.
Britt Bowman: That's a classic Track A profile — referral-dominant, warm market. We'll build the whole BD system around that. Let me ask about your current state. How many active client engagements right now?
Marcus Webb: Two active. Henderson just wrapped, so I've got one manufacturing client mid-engagement and one that's in the tail end, probably six weeks left. So I'm about to have capacity.
Britt Bowman: Good timing then. In the last twelve months, how many referrals did you actually receive — not just conversations, but someone who specifically connected you to a potential client?
Marcus Webb: I'd say six or seven real ones. Maybe eight if I count a couple that were pretty soft. Of those, four turned into actual conversations, and two became engagements. So the convert rate on the ones that get to a real conversation is pretty solid — it's more that the top of the funnel just isn't consistent. Some months I get two referrals, some months I get none and I'm just hoping something comes in.
Britt Bowman: That inconsistency is really common. What does a typical engagement look like in terms of scope, duration, and rough value?
Marcus Webb: We're usually three to six months. Scope is almost always operational — ERP implementation support, facility expansion planning, supply chain restructuring, sometimes org design. Average value is probably in the one-fifty to two-fifty range per engagement. We've had a couple bigger ones north of three hundred, but those are the exception.
Britt Bowman: If you had to name the single biggest constraint on your revenue growth right now — the one thing that if we fixed it would unlock the most — what would it be?
Marcus Webb: Consistency of referrals. Full stop. My close rate when I get to a real conversation is good — I'd say seventy percent or better if it's a warm intro. My delivery is strong, clients are happy. But I have no system for keeping myself top of mind with the people who could be referring me. I rely on organic conversations, and that means my pipeline is lumpy. I'll have a great quarter and then a quiet one and then scramble a little.
Britt Bowman: That's a really clear constraint. Let's talk about your tools. Do you use a CRM — something specifically built for tracking contacts and deals?
Marcus Webb: HubSpot. Free tier, honestly. I've got contacts in there, I log some activity, but I'd be lying if I said I use it really well. It's more of a contact database than an actual pipeline management tool the way I use it.
Britt Bowman: That's fine — we'll work with what you have. How do you manage projects and client deliverables day-to-day?
Marcus Webb: Notion. We've built out a pretty solid workspace in there — project pages, meeting notes, deliverable trackers. Sarah actually set most of it up and it works well. I also use it for my own thinking and note-taking.
Britt Bowman: Where do you store and share documents with clients?
Marcus Webb: Google Drive. We set up a shared folder with each client at the start of an engagement. Works fine, clients are used to it, no complaints.
Britt Bowman: And communication — what tools are you actually in every day for client and internal comms?
Marcus Webb: Slack for internal — me, Sarah, and Derek have a workspace. With clients it's mostly email, sometimes they pull us into their own Slack or Teams depending on the company. I'd say for us the primary is Slack internally, email externally.
Britt Bowman: How do you handle scheduling with clients and prospects — is it back-and-forth email or do you use a tool?
Marcus Webb: Calendly. I've had the link for years, I put it in my email signature. It's made my life so much easier. I don't know why anyone still does the back-and-forth.
Britt Bowman: Agreed. Okay, let's get into positioning. What problem do you solve that clients genuinely can't solve by hiring someone internally or bringing in a big consulting firm?
Marcus Webb: The honest answer is that big firms don't want to get their hands dirty, and internal hires take six to twelve months to ramp and then leave when things get better. We're the option for a company that needs someone who can actually run a workstream — not just advise on it — but doesn't want to build a whole function. We also do something that most ops consultants don't, which is we combine operational design with financial modeling. So when we help a client expand to a new facility, we're not just drawing the org chart, we're modeling the P&L impact of each configuration. That integrated view is rare.
Britt Bowman: That's a real differentiator. Tell me about your best client engagement — the one where everything clicked. What made it work?
Marcus Webb: Meridian Foods. Jennifer Kowalski is the COO. Two-hundred-person food manufacturer, family-owned, expanding from two facilities to three. They'd tried to do the expansion themselves and it was going sideways — ERP implementation was behind, the new facility GM didn't have the operational infrastructure to run the place, and their cash position was getting tighter than they expected. We came in, stabilized the ERP project, redesigned the operational model for the new facility, and built them a thirteen-week cash flow model that helped them negotiate better terms with their bank. What made it work was Jennifer — she gave us real access, she didn't try to manage us from the outside, and she actually implemented what we recommended. Eighteen months of projected implementation time got cut to eleven months. That saved them somewhere around four hundred thousand dollars.
Britt Bowman: That's a great case study. If a prospect asked you why they should hire Apex instead of another ops firm, what's your true answer?
Marcus Webb: We're the only firm I know of in this space that genuinely integrates operational design and financial modeling in a single engagement. Most ops consultants hand you a process map and leave. Most financial advisors tell you what the numbers say and leave. We actually build both sides together so you don't end up with a beautiful operational plan that your CFO can't underwrite. And we only work with manufacturing — that specificity means we're not spending your budget learning your industry.
Britt Bowman: Love it. Do you have any specific results you can point to right now — a number, a before-and-after, something you're proud of?
Marcus Webb: The Meridian one is the strongest. Eleven months versus eighteen — that's a seven-month compression on a complex ERP implementation, which translated to about four hundred K in avoided costs and faster revenue from the new facility. We also helped Lakeside Distribution restructure their carrier relationships last year — they reduced their freight costs by about twelve percent, which on their volume is meaningful.
Britt Bowman: Those are both really usable. Let's talk about your referral network. Who are the three or four past clients you'd feel most comfortable calling today — people who know your work well and would take the call?
Marcus Webb: Jennifer Kowalski at Meridian Foods — she's probably my strongest advocate. She's already sent me one referral. Tom Nakashima — he's a fractional CFO, not technically a client but he's referred me twice and we collaborate sometimes. I'd add Rachel Donnelly, she was the VP of Ops at a client called Summit Packaging — we worked with her a couple years ago, it went really well and we've stayed loosely in touch. And then David Park — he runs a small strategy boutique, we've referred business to each other a few times.
Britt Bowman: Are there any of those where you've explicitly asked them for a referral, like a direct conversation about it?
Marcus Webb: Jennifer, yes — I told her after the engagement that referrals are how I grow and she was very receptive, clearly since she sent one. Tom, kind of — it's more informal, we swap leads. Rachel and David I haven't had that explicit conversation with. It's a little awkward to just ask directly.
Britt Bowman: That's really common and it's exactly what we're going to build a system around. What do you actually say when someone at a networking event asks what you do?
Marcus Webb: I usually say something like "we help mid-market manufacturers build the operational infrastructure to support growth." And then if they want more I'll give an example. It's okay — it's not bad — but I feel like I kind of trail off after the first sentence and don't land a strong follow-up.
Britt Bowman: That's a positioning gap we'll close. Last few questions — how often do you want to be actively working new BD versus heads-down delivery?
Marcus Webb: Honestly, I'd like to spend about a day a week on BD consistently — like a structured day, not just reactive. Right now it's zero when I'm deep in a project and then frantic when I come up for air. I know that's the wrong model.
Britt Bowman: We're going to fix that. Are you comfortable asking happy clients directly for a referral?
Marcus Webb: With people I'm close with, yes. With people where the relationship is a little more formal I find it uncomfortable. Jennifer was easy. Rachel would feel a little more awkward. I'd do it if I had a framework — like a clear way to ask that doesn't feel like I'm begging.
Britt Bowman: That's what the referral engine step is for — we'll give you the exact language. Last one: do you have any case studies formally written up, or are we building from scratch?
Marcus Webb: I have notes on everything. I have the numbers. I've never actually written a proper case study — I always meant to. So we're building from scratch but I have all the raw material. The Meridian one especially — I could probably give you two pages of notes on that engagement just off the top of my head.
Britt Bowman: Perfect. That's actually ideal — we'll have Claude draft them from your notes. Okay Marcus, I think I have everything I need. I'm going to pull this transcript into Vector and it'll build out your whole practice OS. I'll send you the link once it's set up.
Marcus Webb: That was way faster than I expected. I thought this was going to take two hours. This is maybe forty-five minutes and I feel like we covered everything.
Britt Bowman: That's the intake guide doing its job. Alright — I'll be in touch within the hour. Thanks Marcus.
Marcus Webb: Thanks Britt. Talk soon.